Take two people in a relationship. We shall denote them as A and B. We say A and B relate. Let's also name this particular relationship as the AB relation. But, in what way do they relate? Socially, intimataly, economically, defensively, offensively, playfully, legally, in a brief encounter, or in a committed and long term engagement, etc... In this essay, we shall attempt to generalize such a two-body relationship and see if we can exercise our ethical (good v bad) muscle to come up with a value theory that could apply to two body relationships in general.   

Let us consider the case that B values A as is. What do we mean by that? Does B value A as A is in a given place and time (in the 4D universe of SpaceTime)? Or, do we mean that B shall value A as A is in any point in 4D. That gives us two extreme cases both of which are rather meaningless. But, somewhere along the spectrum, say a stretch of time&place, there seems to be a meaninful encounter.

Say A values B as a means to an end. A might have an objective OA and might imagine B would help A get there. Consider a special case of an OA, where A strives towards maximizing a sense of being in control, being dominating, being safe. 

Say B values A as an end in itself. B in this case can be said to have the objective of OB which entails helping A along in OA, whatever OA is.

Do such an OA and OB cohere? 

What do we want in life? Some thinkers (say Soc) posit: happiness. We want to be happy. 

Others (say Ari) claim that, no, we want to survive, live well, get things, and get comfortable. Soc notes that the we only want things in order that they give us a good feeling. A sense of happiness and peace. Ari retorts that such happiness is fleeting, we need to occupy ourselves with things of this world in order to preserve our happiness.

Do Soc and Ari have core values that conflict with each other? 

Ari seems to think so. But, Soc doesn't. If we need to keep busy to be happy, then, our happiness is conditioned, like an addiction. Can't be happy unless we feel we are meaningfully busy. 

To be continued....
